WASHINGTON (AP) -- The Justice Department's landmark antitrust   trial and earlier legal actions against the Microsoft Corp. The department also revealed it has spent $194,140 for public   relations, including $147,381 for publishing court documents and  other information about the case on its Internet site. But the company's financial records  showed ``general and administrative expenses,'' including lawyers'  fees, of $689 million for this business year, ended June 30. Some of the experts said the judge's emphasis on traditional antitrust principles, like rules against intimidation by monopolies, could blunt Microsoft's public efforts to suggest that the Justice Department was overstepping the appropriate bounds of antitrust enforcement. Under antitrust rules, a company that has a dominant product, like a salt packing machine in an early case, cannot take advantage of its dominance by requiring customers to buy another product, like raw salt, to get the popular product. Antitrust experts said that most countries still investigating Microsoft's practices were taking a wait-and-see stance toward the company, pending the outcome of the major U.S. antitrust case. The testimony and cross-examination of Norris will focus on a crucial allegation in the antitrust suit against Microsoft by the Justice Department and 19 states _ that Microsoft uses the price it charges PC makers for its industry-standard Windows operating system to insure that they promote Microsoft software over competing software. Ever since IBM selected Microsoft to supply the operating system for the first IBM PC in 1981, IBM has been out-hustled and outsmarted by Microsoft in the PC business _ not the sort of behavior the nation's antitrust laws were meant to prohibit. 1994:      July 16 _ Microsoft and Justice Department trustbrusters reach a settlement that requires the company to change a variety of business practices, including key aspects of its licensing agreements with personal computer makers. May 18 - After the settlement negotiations fail, the Justice Department and 20 states file a broad antitrust suit against Microsoft. The case is assigned to Jackson, who seeks to expedite the proceedings by setting an early trial date. Antitrust experts say the findings of fact can be used by dozens of Microsoft's competitors as the basis of their own private antitrust actions against the company. An attempt last year to have the company held in contempt of court for violating an earlier consent decree was rejected by an appeals court, which ruled that Microsoft had a right to add Internet browsing capabilities to its operating system _ one of the key issues in dispute in the antitrust case. If this weren't enough for Microsoft, the company faces another antitrust shootout in a case that has attracted far less attention but could be equally devastating to Microsoft's future. Instead, he stated that if a 1998 appeals court ruling in a related case applies in this suit as well, then Microsoft did not engage in illegal tying. A company is guilty of illegal tying if it makes consumers accept a second product as a condition of buying a market-leading product. Fierce competition is one thing, the government says, but the voluminous record including volumes of e-mail, internal Microsoft documents and witness testimony show Microsoft to have been an arm-twisting monopolist, whose corporate behavior stifled competition and harmed consumers. 
