Majecen said it was time for European countries to coordinate their activities and share information in landmine technology and ways to detect and disarm them 	   During his speech, Italian Defense Minister Massimo Brutti praised efforts by Europe and international organizations to remove ``these instruments of death.'' The Ottawa Treaty was signed in December 1997 by 135 countries, 74 of which have ratified it. The treaty ``will have far-reaching implications for both mine-affected and mine-producing countries.'' In London, British Foreign Office Minister Tony Lloyd said the success in ratifying the treaty ``reflects the international community's determination to rid the world of anti-personnel mines, and sends a clear signal to those who have not signed. In a statement, the ICBL expressed ``grave concern about reports of the continued laying of mines in a number of countries that have signed but not ratified the treaty, such as Angola, Cambodia, Senegal and Sudan. ``We have never thought that the treaty itself was victory,'' said Jody Williams, co-winner of the Nobel Peace Prize for her six year crusade with the International Campaign to Ban Landmines that resulted in 122 countries signing the treaty in Ottawa in December. Since mid-September, five more nations have ratified the treaty, most recently Japan. The treaty, concluded in Ottawa in 1997, has been signed by 133   countries and ratified by 65 of them. About 12 countries have  destroyed their entire stocks of land mines. Major users and producers -- including the United States, Russia   and China -- have refused to join in. And even with the treaty, it  will take still take decades to clear the tens of millions of mines  scattered in more than 60 countries. ``The battle ahead is to make this treaty full effective not   just in law but also in implementation,'' U.N. Secretary-General  Kofi Annan said in a message to the ceremony in Geneva. The report, produced by the Nobel laureate International Campaign to Ban Landmines, will be presented next week to a Geneva meeting of countries that have ratified a 1997 treaty outlawing the weapons. Since the treaty came into force on March 1 last year, some 10 million stockpiled antipersonnel mines have been destroyed, bringing the total so far to 22 million, it said. Still, new land mine victims have been recorded in 71 countries, more than half of them at peace, it said. Since the treaty came into effect the weapons likely have been used in 20 conflicts, by 11 governments and 30 rebel groups. Countries that have ratified the treaty were to meet in Switzerland next week. Mary Fowler, the deputy chief of the U.N.'s Mine Action Service in New York, noted that the countries that have signed on to a ban have destroyed 14 million mines that had been stockpiled when the treaty was written two years ago. Even countries that have so far refused to sign the treaty _ including the United States and Russia _ have pledged to stop exporting mines and to stop making certain kinds altogether. It essentially relies on member states to monitor themselves and honestly report on what stockpiles they have and the efforts they are making to destroy them.
