'Any adverse development leading to heightened tension or conflict could only result in dire consequences to the region's well-being,' he said, 'bringing in its wake the risk of extra-regional involvement and putting back years of painstaking efforts at nurturing relations based on mutual trust and confidence.' They attribute his combative speeches - whether he is rejecting criticism of Malaysia's logging industry or accusing the west of imperialism - partly to personal conviction and partly to his ambitions as a leader of the third world. Dr Mahathir is said by his advisers to receive letters of support from other third world leaders, who agree with what he says but do not dare to say it themselves, although his confrontational style is not always appreciated. Dr Mahathir often accuses the west of double standards - he recently commented that western countries were willing to interfere in defence of human rights in Malaysia but not in Israel or Bosnia - but his critics make the same accusation in reverse about Malaysia. 'Mahathir runs foreign policy, and some of what he does is aimed at protecting his Islamic flank,' says another diplomat. At issue is the ownership of the Spratly Islands and their surrounding seas which are claimed, in whole or part, by China, Vietnam, the Philippines, Malaysia, Brunei and Taiwan. Nothing could illustrate more clearly the nature of argument over the 100 or more atolls, reefs and islets that make up the Spratly islands: few people would want or be able to live there unsupported, but governments want to own them to lay claim to the surrounding waters. The main protagonists in the dispute are China and Vietnam, but Taiwan, Malaysia, the Philippines and Brunei also lay claim to all or some of the Spratlys. The trouble for Hanoi is that there is not much it can do without provoking China or undermining its fragile economic recovery. The inevitability of reform, however, has not prevented many Vietnamese from resenting the rampant corruption that has accompanied economic growth or from complaining that the good aspects of communism - free education for example - have been thrown out with the bad. 'Some people talk about the dragon,' says Do Duc Dinh, a Vietnamese economist, 'but I think it may take three or four decades to come to that, and it depends on our efforts.' It would be normal for either to visit Turkey alone or, in special circumstances, for both to participate in a European Union mission. The report says tension in the Aegean has also been stoked by supplies to both countries of new and secondhand ships from other Nato countries. This dialogue of the deaf reflects confusion over the difference between territorial waters - which may be extended, under the UN Law, up to 12 miles  -and the 'economic zone' which coastal states are entitled to claim, amounting to either 200 miles or the full extent of their continental shelf, whichever is larger. China and Vietnam are also arguing over resources around the Spratly Islands, a group of reefs and atolls whose other would-be owners are Taiwan, Brunei, Malaysia and the Philippines.
